- So now that we have discussed the adaptor pattern
and what its used for and how it operates, it's time
to go implement it in code.
I would like you to go ahead and navigate to your IDE.
and open our source, main, java, our base package
and lets create a new package in here
called adapter.
Now we are going to create an adapter that is going
to treat an orange like an apple. Which is something
Gus Porticolis would very happy with us, since apples
and oranges are all fruit. So let's start with an
interface for apple. Our apple interface is going to
implement two methods. One is going to be a getVariety
and another is going to void method called eat.
So now that we have built the apple interface, let's go
create our orange interface. Now, our orange interface
is going to look very similar to our apple but it's going
to have getVariety string method and it's also going to have
a void eat method but its going to have a void peel method
and a void juice method. And that is all we are going to
do for that interface.
So now it's time to create our adapter. This time we are
going to create a class called AppleAdapter and this will
implement our apple interface.
Go ahead and implement
our methods. And now it's going to take a few more values
here. So it's going to keep a reference to an orange and
we will reference that by its interface. And because it's
final, we are going to create a constructor that takes
our orange interface. So now that we have implemented
the basics of it, now let's go through here and actually
implement our methods. So in this case, when we call
getVariety we are going to return orange.getVariety.
And now when, we do our eat, we are going to call
orange.peel and then orange.eat.
And now that we have
our adapter set, let's go create a concrete instance of
our orange. And we are going to create MoroOrange, which
is a wonderful Blood orange from Sicily. So our MoroOrange
is going to implement the orange interface. And we will go
ahead and implement our methods.
So we will return
Moro Blood Orange
and on eat we will simply do a
System.out.prinln here
enjoyed.
And then we are going to do something very
similar, just copy and paste that to peeled.
We are now going to say Moro gets peeled.
And then our juice method one more time,
we will say Moro gets juiced.
Alright, now let's take a look at this adapter in
action. And to do that, we are going to jump down
here into test Java, our base package, and we will
create a new package and we will call this adapter.
In our adapter package, in the test directory, we will
put a Java class. And we are going to call this
AppleAdapterTest and we are going to
put one method in here.
So at test public void testAdapter
Orange Orange
equals new MoroOrange.
Apple in this case is going to be
our apple adapter that we are going to pass our orange
to. So now we are going to treat the adapter as an
apple. Which is what it's designed. We are going to do a
System.out.println on
apple.getVariety
and we will also do apple.eat.
So now we are going to expect to see a little output
here when we run this test. Let's go ahead and run this
test now.
And you will see, we get to Moro Blood Orange
and then we get to Moro gets peeled and enjoyed.
And this is how the adapter pattern is used. We treated
an orange, like an apple but in the orange use case,
eating it required it to be peeled first, before you
actually got to enjoy it. Whereas an apple of course
you can just eat it as is.
And that is how the adapter is used,
it treats one like the other, and does so in a way that is
passive to the original object.